_source/android/01_getting_started.md, before:

---
permalink: /android/getting-started.html
order: 01
title: "Getting Started"
description: "How to create a new Hotwire Native app on Android."
---

# Getting Started

Follow these steps to create a minimal Hotwire Native application on Android with support for basic back/forward navigation and error handling.

## New Project

First, download and install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio).

Open Android Studio and create a new Android app via File → New → New Project... and choose the "Empty Views Activity" template.

<img src="/assets/new-android-studio-project.png" class="border" width="600" alt="New Android Studio project" />

Then select API 28 or higher for the minimum SDK and Kotlin DSL for the build configuration language.

<img src="/assets/android-studio-project-options.png" class="border" width="600" alt="Configure Android Studio project" />

## Integrate Hotwire Native

Add the Hotwire Native dependencies to your app's module (not top-level) `build.gradle.kts` file. You can find the latest version number from [github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/releases](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/releases).

```kotlin
dependencies {
    implementation("dev.hotwire:core:<latest-version>")
    implementation("dev.hotwire:navigation-fragments:<latest-version>")
}
```

Enable internet access for the app by opening `AndroidManifest.xml` and adding the following above the `<application>` node:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
```

Set up the app's layout by opening `activity_main.xml` and replace the entire file with the following:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<androidx.fragment.app.FragmentContainerView
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
    android:id="@+id/main_nav_host"
    android:name="dev.hotwire.navigation.navigator.NavigatorHost"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent"
    app:defaultNavHost="false" />
```

Finally, open `MainActivity.kt` and replace the class with this code:

```kotlin
import android.os.Bundle
import dev.hotwire.navigation.activities.HotwireActivity
import dev.hotwire.navigation.navigator.NavigatorConfiguration

class MainActivity : HotwireActivity() {
    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
        setContentView(R.layout.activity_main)
    }

    override fun navigatorConfigurations() = listOf(
        NavigatorConfiguration(
            name = "main",
            startLocation = "https://hotwire-native-demo.dev",
            navigatorHostId = R.id.main_nav_host
        )
    )
}
```

## Run!

Click Run → Run 'app' to launch the app in the emulator. You should see the following screen in the emulator:

<img src="/assets/android-hotwire-native-demo.png" class="border" width="600" alt="Hotwire Native demo app" />

This example only touches on the core requirements of creating a `HotwireActivity` and routing start location. Feel free to change the URL used for the initial visit to point to your web app.

And note that we are pointing to a demo application server that expects a bit more native functionality. Some of the links, like native controls, won't work out of the box. Check out the [Hotwire Native Android demo app](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/tree/main/demo) for examples on how to add bridge components, native screens, and more.

Commit message:

change getting-started instructions to match new Android Studio defaults

_source/android/01_getting_started.md, after:

---
permalink: /android/getting-started.html
order: 01
title: "Getting Started"
description: "How to create a new Hotwire Native app on Android."
---

# Getting Started

Follow these steps to create a minimal Hotwire Native application on Android with support for basic back/forward navigation and error handling.

## New Project

First, download and install [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio).

Open Android Studio and create a new Android app via File → New → New Project... and choose the "Empty Views Activity" template.

<img src="/assets/new-android-studio-project.png" class="border" width="600" alt="New Android Studio project" />

Then select API 28 or higher for the minimum SDK and Kotlin DSL for the build configuration language.

<img src="/assets/android-studio-project-options.png" class="border" width="600" alt="Configure Android Studio project" />

## Integrate Hotwire Native

Add the Hotwire Native dependencies to your app's module (not top-level) `build.gradle.kts` file. You can find the latest version number from [github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/releases](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/releases).

```kotlin
dependencies {
    implementation("dev.hotwire:core:<latest-version>")
    implementation("dev.hotwire:navigation-fragments:<latest-version>")
}
```

Enable internet access for the app by opening `AndroidManifest.xml` and adding the following above the `<application>` node:

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
```

Set up the app's layout by opening `activity_main.xml` and replace the entire file with the following:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<androidx.fragment.app.FragmentContainerView
    xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android"
    xmlns:app="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res-auto"
    android:id="@+id/main_nav_host"
    android:name="dev.hotwire.navigation.navigator.NavigatorHost"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent"
    app:defaultNavHost="false" />
```

If you don't have such a file in your project, create it under `app/src/main/res/layout`, you might also need to create the layout directory first as an `Android Resource Directory` with Resource type `layout`

Replace the default theme in `themes.xml` by changing the parent attribute so it matches the following node:

```xml
<style name="Theme.<your-app-name>" parent="Theme.AppCompat.NoActionBar" />
```

Finally, open `MainActivity.kt` and replace the class with this code:

```kotlin
import android.os.Bundle
import dev.hotwire.navigation.activities.HotwireActivity
import dev.hotwire.navigation.navigator.NavigatorConfiguration

class MainActivity : HotwireActivity() {
    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
        setContentView(R.layout.activity_main)
    }

    override fun navigatorConfigurations() = listOf(
        NavigatorConfiguration(
            name = "main",
            startLocation = "https://hotwire-native-demo.dev",
            navigatorHostId = R.id.main_nav_host
        )
    )
}
```

## Run!

Click Run → Run 'app' to launch the app in the emulator. You should see the following screen in the emulator:

<img src="/assets/android-hotwire-native-demo.png" class="border" width="600" alt="Hotwire Native demo app" />

This example only touches on the core requirements of creating a `HotwireActivity` and routing start location. Feel free to change the URL used for the initial visit to point to your web app.

And note that we are pointing to a demo application server that expects a bit more native functionality. Some of the links, like native controls, won't work out of the box. Check out the [Hotwire Native Android demo app](https://github.com/hotwired/hotwire-native-android/tree/main/demo) for examples on how to add bridge components, native screens, and more.
